Stock Price Prediction: Using Machine Learning Techniques
Artificial Intelligence is at the cusp of revolutionizing the industry of finance. Financial institutions have come to embrace machine learning and deep learning to streamline and optimize processes ranging from risk management to creditworthiness assessments. Navigating through stock market volatility is a specific application.

Motivation                                                                                                                               
  Gaining even a slight edge in modelling stock price movements or predicting actual prices with reasonable accuracy delivers solid returns and therefore, stock price prediction using machine learning techniques has found many takers among investors and arbitrageurs.

Overview                                                                                                                                        
  Considering the highly violent and seemingly unpredictable nature of the fluctuations in stock prices, Princeton University economist Burton Malkiel argued in his 1973 book, 'A Random Walk Down Wall Street' that when capital markets are efficient, a blindfolded monkey throwing darts at a newspaper stock listing should do as well as an investment professional. The Random Walk Hypothesis, as it came to be called, postulates that stock price determination is an essentially random or stochastic process. This is a rather strong claim that douses any hope for stock market participants who seek to minimize the exposure to risk arising from these price fluctuations.
Traditionally, in order to predict future trends in the stock market, investors and analysts would examine historical stock price data along with other stock indicators. In particular, past trends in stock prices are regarded as a crucial determinant of future prices, giving rise to a need for a model that can handle sequential data effectively.
We employ LSTM (Long Short Term Memory) networks that are known to be powerful in sequence prediction problems and are particularly equipped to connect information over prolonged time gaps for this exercise.

Scope                                                                                                  
  By predicting upcoming trends in stock prices based on previous fluctuations, investors could learn to efficiently tap into arbitrage opportunities, made better equipped to deal with volatility and make more informed choices.

Objective                                         		     
  To develop an LSTM framework to predict the closing stock price of individual stocks
Methodology
1) Raw data                                                  
  Extract OHLC data on trends in stock prices of a company from a web source (Yahoo Finance).
2) Data Transformation                                                                                                           
   Min-Max normalization performed on data values using MinMaxScaler from Sci-kit Learn. Normalization was done to speed up processing and aid the backpropagation algorithm converge to the minima of the error function efficiently.
3)  Dataset partitioning                                                                                                                    
    Split the dataset (2003 observations) into training and test sets with 80% data used to train the model and 20% to test its accuracy. 
4) Create data structure with timesteps                                                                                           
    We proceed to create a data structure of 60 timesteps and 1 output on the training dataset comprising of 1603 observations. Starting from the first observation of the training dataset, successive batches of previous 60 days’ stock prices along with the prediction of the closing price on the 61st day are made for the model to train on.
5) Building the LSTM Model                                                                                                        
    Our LSTM (Sequential) Model was composed of 2 LSTM layers, 2 Dense layers followed by activation.
 6) Output Generation                                                                                                                    
    In this layer, the output generated by the model is compared with the actual output. The back propagation algorithm adjusts input weights and biases to progressively minimize error in successive epochs.
